---
title: 'About'
---

TLDR: I was missing a place to find information about Life-centered Design when I first came across this term. There simply was nothing to be found and I was not even sure if it was even a thing. So I decided that there needs to be a repository of resources and maybe someday also a community to be able to learn from each other. This is why I build LifeCenteredDesign.Net.
But if you HAVE the time, here is the very personal story behind LifeCenteredDesign.Net:

It is early 2019. I had been working as a self-employed UX Designer quite successfully for more than 6 years already. Not only that, but I also really loved my job and enjoyed working in this field every single day. But there was an uncomfortable feeling growing inside of me: the feeling, that what I do professionally and what I use my talents for is not enough. That my work is not meaningful – at least not in the world we are living in today.
So when a Podcast episode with the title “The Future is Life-Centered” entered my Inbox, I was intrigued. I started listening and I was immediately hooked. Hearing Jane Fulton Suri talk about how she would like to start thinking about the human as part of a broader system – an ecosystem of living things – felt like an epiphany. As if a void had been filled. As if suddenly all of my questions were answered and my future unraveled before me.
“What is this Life-centered Design-thing she is talking about?” I was fixed on finding out more. But the excitement didn’t last for long. Because googling showed me pretty quickly how hard it will be to get deeper into this topic. Because there wasn’t anything concrete to be found. So I quickly started wondering, if Life-Centered Design was even a thing or if Jane was the only one using this term.
Back then I was still very active on Instagram. So what naturally happened was that I was starting to use the term “Life-Centered Design” there and was talking about what I THOUGHT it meant and what it meant for me. One day I even wrote a little blog post (very spontaneously – just how I normally write and talk). And what I quickly realized is, that it is not only me who reacts to this term this way. There were so many followers who were really eager to find out more. And (as I was told by a follower) my blogpost seem to rank very well – which was very surprising because I am not a blogger and my writing was not that good.
So what I remember quite vividly is, how one day during a walk I was telling my husband that this will be the future and more importantly, that this will be MY future. I finally felt like I found MY thing. MY niche. And with that and because I was so frustrated to never have been able to find any resources, I decided that I wanted to change something about that first. For me, this meant two things: There needs to be a place for resources and a community, where we would be able to share and learn from each other. Because with a new topic like that, I felt that this would make the most sense.
And that is how the idea behind LifeCenteredDesign.Net was birthed. I quickly started working on it – just how I always do. For the first MVP I wanted to start with the resource repository, but I also wanted to get insights on what other things (of the ones I planned on creating in the future) people would be interested in (community, events, job board, and so on).
And then life happened. I started working as the Head of Strategy and UX in an agency, leading two teams and working on the agency’s strategy too many hours a day. But most importantly: I became a mom 🥰
This did not mean that I would ignore my future with LifeCenteredDesign.Net, it only meant that things would go way slower.
And the funny thing is: During this time something shifted. Apparently, in the meantime, others also jumped on the Life-centered Design wagon. I guess I was not the only one who found this little magical thing and let me tell you: The other people who found out about Life-centered Design in the meantime were very active!
So when my daughter was old enough that I could come back to work on LifeCenteredDesign.Net, I was excited to see that the field had grown. I was even interviewed for a whitepaper on that topic and I was asked to join a small Collective, where I had the pleasure to meet AMAZING like-minded designers that are active in this field as well.
But even though others are now thinking about Life-centered Design as well and some are even starting to work with it, Life-centered Design is still in the very early stages. It is in the stage where we are building the foundation, finding a common language to be able to communicate, and experimenting with tools and frameworks. And during that time it is so important to learn from each other! And of course, it is also important to learn from other related fields that have been around for a longer time like Biomimicry, Regenerative Design, Circular Design, and so on.
So I think it is still very important that something like LifeCenteredDesign.Net exists and I am eager to find out what it will grow into. A lot of people already reached out to me and offered their help – what I want to say thanks for again here. I want to figure out what helping me with it could look like, so if you are reading this and also want to join in, feel free to reach out!
And with that, I also want to say thanks to my amazing husband. Who is not only here for our real baby every day but also for this Life-centered Design-baby by making my ideas and designs a reality. He is the genius behind the code and that means that without him, this wouldn’t be here at all!
Thanks so much to you as well for being here and for gifting me your time reading all of this. You are amazing and I am happy that you are sharing your love and excitement for Life-centered Design with me. Let us grow together and help Life-centered Design get bigger and bigger because we need it!
Oh, and if you want to know what Life-centered Design is, then I will for now recommend these amazing resources to you (since this is a place to find resources, it makes sense, right? 😉):

TBD!!!

So now enjoy starting or continuing your Life-centered Design journey here on LifeCenteredDesign.Net and have fun reading, watching, and listening to things that will help you with it. Let me know what you learned and if you know a resource that I should include as well!
